1/30/2024 - Met as a group to discuss project proposal and begin building Ultrasonic Sensor. We did some research and tried to figure out how an ultrasonic senor works. We also tested a working ultrasonic sensor with our ESP32 to make sure it had the capabilites to do so.

2/4/2024 - Met as a group to work on project proposal. Also completed our team contract. I did some research on our screen and realized that there may be an issue with 3.3-5v TX and Rx connections between the ESP32 and Screen. I plan on buying the screen to test it out and I will check on its viability later.

2/13/2024
Met with TA
Spoke about Design document. Looked through parts list to order components. Talked over changes that need to be made to the proposal including.
Make High level requirements list more concise.
Dumb down the visual aid
Change block diagram (add stuff to arrows), make it smaller
Add R/V table to replace subsystem verification
Do tolerance Analysis for voltage regulator
Quote IEEE for rule 3 (maybe add OSHA for smell) what if someone throws water at it
Another thing someone could add is the weight of the bag (no more than 50 lbs). Look at sp23 team 21

2/14/2024
Met with group to revise proposal. Added Temperature sensor to Breadboard circuit. Ironed out details for which sensors are 5v (ultrasonic) and which sensors were 3.3v (Temperature/Humidity and Gas Sensor). Worked on R/V tables and divided up work for the rest of the week to tackle the proposal changes.

2/16/2024
Made slight modifications to Breadboard circuit. Protected the ESP32 from Utrasonic 5v signals through a voltage divider. Decided to use My trash can for the final demo and that we will be using a board above the can to mount our sensor. We will use boxes to "fill up" the can during the demo.

2/19/2024
Worked on Proposal revisions and added them to Latex document. Revised Ethics and Safety section to fit the needs of the class. Decided to use a Housing for the sensor to protect it from splashing water and other debris when trash is thrown in the can.

2/20/2024
Spoke with TA, We will be buying a component for gas sensing on Amazon to test it with our breadboard. Need level shifters for bringing the 5v signal from the air quality sensor down to 3.3v for the esp32. Went over next steps for the Design document.

Later today I met with Allen in the afternoon to work on the first-iteration PCB schematic for the sensor tag. We mostly finished the connections for the sensors, programming logic, and additional circuitry like a power connection. We also found a few components that we will need like a USB power supply, power cables, and micro-USB adapter board. We were unsure about a few things like the CTS vs. RTS pins in the programming circuit and which pins we should use on the WROOM-1 vs. the WROOM-32.

2/29
Things we still need
-10x 1k resistors
-zmod
-microusb
Things to change in the PCB:
-Resistors and capacitors to 0805
-Voltage regulator
-Add pull up resistors to schematic and pcb
-Make sure the buttons are big ones from our lab kits on the pcb
Things to do:
-Redo order

3/5/2024
Notes for TA meeting
Things to do for our final presentation/doc
-Explain the reasoning behind not having a battery
-Beef up the explanation for air quality index

3/18/2024
Looked through lots of documentation on ESP32 and nextion programming as it will be different than our development board. 
The second serial communication ports can be reconifigured to any GPIO pin using "Serial2.begin(115200, SERIAL_8N1, RXD2, TXD2);    //Hardware Serial of ESP32" where TXD2 an RXD2 are the numbers of pins used.

3/19/2024
I spent a good deal of time this afternoon with Allen while we tried to solder our PCB and program the ESP32 on the board. This process proved difficult as we had some issues with the reflow oven, so we decided to use a heat gun instead. We spent many hours then trying to program the esp32 to no avail. We will continue to work on this tomorrow.

3/20/2024
After attempting to debug our board from yesterday, we have concluded that the ESP32 was likely fried by the heat gun when soldering. After coming to this conclusion, we reattempted to use the reflow oven with a fresh board and esp32 and were successful in soldering the microcontroller to the board with the oven. After that, Allen handsoldered the rest of the components to the board and we tested the programming functionality of our board. After some debugging we found the following problems:
- The TX0 and RX0 needed to be flipped for the programmer
- The RTS and DTR did not function as expected when programming, it is easier to omit this circuit and simply press the switches to put it in programming mode.
- A few of the strapping circuits in our PCB are completely unecessary, we will not include these on the next iteration of our board.
These discoveries led us to figuring out a way to successfully program the ESP32! We will continue to work on the ESP32 to Nextion interface for the rest of this week.

3/24/2024
Our group worked together to solder the sensor board pcb and test it. We ran into some issues with the ZMOD as programming information was not easily accessible. I spent a few hours looking into the libraries available but was unable to get the sensor working. We decided to look into our backup, the MQ135, and were able to get the sensor to work almost immediately.

3/25/2024
After showing our first run of the sensor board pcb to our TA, we were informed that the MQ135 sensor we ordered would be classified as a module so we would not be able to use it in our final project. As a result, we desoldered the MQ135 from the module and tested it individually on a breadboard to reverse engineer the module. We were able to reverse engineer the module with some resistors and added these components to our PCB. We sent out an order with these updated components.

