1/30/24 - We met in the afternoon to investigate the use of ultrasonic sensors with the ESP32. We experimented with some basic amplifier circuits for the receiver and a simple MOSFET-based driver for the transmitter. We struggled to determine whether these circuits were working and also found it difficult to generate a 40 kHz signal on the ESP32. We referred to the following website for information on ultrasonic sensor circuits: http://www.kerrywong.com/2011/01/22/a-sensitive-diy-ultrasonic-range-sensor/

2/12/24 - We met in the afternoon to discuss the components we will need for the board to program the ESP32 and connect to the various sensors and peripherals.

2/13/24 - Team meeting 1. Clarified a few questions about ordering components. Goal is to keep budget low and get everything in-house. "Dumb-down" diagram, simplify high-level requirements and make them more definite. In block diagram, make sensor part smaller and double it (hub-spoke model), and write I2C, etc., for sensors (protocols). Also put the protocols in subsystem section. Requirements and verifications should have RV-table (and we are missing verification part). Tolerance analysis lost the most points - add voltage regulator discussion, modify ultrasonic sensor part? Our professor is Fliflet who prioritizes ethics and safety. For this section, address all ethics and safety codes. OSHA? Talk about weight as well even though it's not part of our project. Consider how exposure to trash would affect sensor tag (housing?). Look at team 21 from Spring 2023. Consider heat dissipation from voltage regulation (thermal circuit). Choose particular trash can so tolerances, etc. can be more definite.

2/16/24 - We met in the afternoon to make the recommended changes to our project proposal, then Matt and I tested the ultrasonic and temperature sensors with the ESP32. We were able to verify that the ultrasonic sensor works correctly with a voltage divider leading between its ECHO output and the ESP32 input, and we also got the DHT22 temperature/humidity sensor working. The DHT22 only works with 3.3V and a direct connection to the ESP32 (no divider), while the ultrasonic sensor requires 5V but works with and without a divider. It should have a divider, though, to stay within the input voltage rating of the ESP32 IO pins.

2/20/24 - TA meeting 2. Rewritten proposal looks mostly good (a few notes in doc). We should put sub-circuits in design doc (for each sensor, etc.). I met with Matt in the afternoon to work on the first-iteration PCB schematic for the sensor tag. We mostly finished the connections for the sensors, programming logic, and additional circuitry like a power connection. We also found a few components that we will need like a USB power supply, power cables, and micro-USB adapter board. We were unsure about a few things like the CTS vs. RTS pins in the programming circuit and which pins we should use on the WROOM-1 vs. the WROOM-32.

2/29/24 - We went over the PCBs to make sure we're ready for the review tomorrow. We found a few issues like incorrect resistor and capacitor sizes, incorrect regulator type, and missing I2C pull-up resistors. We also made a list of which parts we still need to buy.

3/1/24 - PCB review this afternoon. Only change needed: ESP32 antennas should be hanging off the side of the board (or have no signals or ground planes underneath).